Anayak ChauballProfessional Summary:Call me at (786)   (607)   (7373)anay77career(at) gmail (DOT) (COM)Employer :   zed  (at)  Tekforcecorp  (Dot)  (COM)  10+ years of experience working as a Java /J2EE developer in designing,developing, deploying, and maintaining web-based, client/server applicationsalong with Enterprise and Distributed applications.  Hands on experience in developing applications using various Front-Endframeworks like React.JS with JavaScript, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS.  Expertise in Java programming and have good understanding on OOPs,Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Annotations,Concurrency, Multi-Threading, Lambda and Generics.  Expert level experience with Web based Application design & development usingJava/ J2EETechnologies like JSP, JSF and JMS.  Experience on Object Oriented Design Patterns such as Singleton Pattern, MVCPattern, Factory Pattern, Fa ade Pattern and DAO Pattern with exposure to UMLModeling.  Good experience working with the Java1.8 and JDK1.8 and implemented thenew feature like Lambda Expressions, Streams, Java Time API.  Good experience in various modules of Spring framework like Spring IOC,Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring ORM, Transaction Management, SpringSecurity and Spring Boot, Spring Data.  Expertise in implementing the persistence logic using JDBC, JPA, SpringJDBC, Hibernate framework.  Extensively worked on Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Data and RESTProficient in creating effective web applications using HTML5/HTML/XHTML,CSS3/CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, XML and JSTL tags.  Proficient in Core Java with strong understanding of data structures, algorithms,Collections, Concurrency, Multithreading, Event handling and performancetuning.  Experienced in integrating enterprise applications using RESTful Web services.  Comfortable working with MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, Node.JS) stack.  Experience in creating web applications utilizing Spring MVC outline work andObject-Relational Mapping advances, for example, JPA, Hibernate.  Good experience working with JavaScript and JavaScript frameworks JQuery,Angular 6, ReactJS.Anayak ChauballTechnical Skills:Languages Java 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0, Java/J2EE, C, C++, Python, JDBC,DTD, UML, Design Patterns, Shell Scripts, SQL and PL/SQLJ2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, JNDI, Java SecurityMark-up/XMLTechnologiesHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS,Bootstrap, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, JSON.Tools & Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow,Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, JUnit, SOAP UI, ANT,Maven, Jenkins, Jasper Reports, Apache Active MQ,Apache Camel.Web services SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, Restful, JAX-RS, JAX-WS,JAX-B, Axis2,Micro services, AWS (Amazon Web Services).Web/App Servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, J Boss, Web LogicServer.Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, TOAD,MongoDB/NoSQL, Cassandra.IDEs Eclipse, IntelliJ, Spring Tool Suite(STS), RAD.Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Sessionb Fa ade, Singleton,Business Delegate and DAO patternsO-R mapping Hibernate, MyBatis.Modelling/ CASEToolsRational Rose, MS Visio Professional.Testing Tools/OthersJUnit, Soap UI, Putty, Post ManBuild Tools Maven, Jenkins, Gradle, ANT pVersion Control Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, GitHub.OS & Environment Windows, Sun Solaris, UNIX, Linux.Languages Java 8.0/7.0/6.0/5.0, Java/J2EE, C, C++, Python, JDBC,DTD, UML, Design Patterns, Shell Scripts, SQL and PL/SQLEducational Details:Bachelor of Engineering from University of Mumbai, Mumbai, India.Master of Science from Wright State University, Dayton, Ohio.Professional Experience:Hitachi Vantara, Bentonville, AR     Senior   Sept 2020 -PresentAnayak ChauballRole: Application support engineer/Senior Full Stack Java DeveloperResponsibilities:  Involved in Design, Development and Testing of software development life cycle.  Involved in structuring and execution of MVC configuration design utilizing springframework for Web-level  Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework usingDependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations. Thisfunctionality is implemented by developing RESTFUL web services using spring boot  Worked on developing the backend part of the application involving spring framework,and Web Services  Worked on Design and developed Micro Services business components using SpringBoot.  Provide production support for the team product release, completed AD-HOC changesrequested by business group.  Extensively worked on Implementing Spring Boot Micro Services to divide theapplication into various sub modules.  Implemented Bean classes and configured in Spring configuration file forDependency Injection.  Developed Controller Classes using Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, handledsecurity using Spring Security.  Integrated REST API with Spring for consuming resources using Spring RestTemplates and developed RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtimeengine and accounts.  Created Server instances on AWS. Tomcat, Swagger are installed and used fordeploying Micro-services.  Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including AmazonWeb Services.  Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's usingComponent based architecture provided by Angular 6.  Used Angular 6 Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to performform validations both on server and client side  Used Decorators to optimize the code reusability and worked with services, providers inAngular 6.  Experience in working with Routes and Customized components for each of the webpage in Angular 6.  Experience on AWS Deploying, managing and operating scalable, highly available, andfault tolerant systems and managed continuous delivery systems and methodologies onAWS.  Experience on practical implementation of cloud-specific AWS technologies includingIAM, MFA, Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Simple Storage Services (S3), Route 53,Cloud Formation, Elastic Bean Stalk, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), RDS and CloudWatch.  Involved in maintaining the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53 services in AWSCloud.Anayak Chauball  Hands on experience of multiple AWS accounts with multiple VPC's for both productionand non-production where primary objectives included automation, build out, integrationand cost control  Build scripts on AWS cloud for scheduling EC2 auto scaling load balancer withpython SDK.  Worked with Lambda expressions and Functional interfaces.  Used Java 1.8 features like stream, lambda expressions, functional interface,collections, Date/Time changes and type annotations.  Initiated mappings among the relations and written named HQL queries usingHibernate.  Experience on SVN repositories for version controlling, and Log4J is used for LoggingErrors, Exceptions.  Implemented data access layer i.e. DAO Classes using Hibernate as an ORM tool andconfigured xml files according to Hibernate framework.  Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate that use the POJOs to represent thepersistence database.  Implemented a load-balanced, highly scalable, and available, fault-tolerant Kubernetesinfrastructure  Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage Docker containers  Developed and consumed RESTful web services to retrieve configuration JSONdocuments related to customer.  Used Kubernetes to cluster Docker containers in runtime environment throughout theCI/CD  Experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring and Monitoring.  Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes,shading, replication, schema design, etc.  Implemented Kafka producer and consumer applications on Kafka cluster setup withhelp of Zookeeper.  Used Apache Kafka for distributed publish-subscribe messaging system that is foralerting and reporting on operational metrics to Kafka producers and consumers.  Used Elasticsearch for powering search, logging and monitoring systems end to end.Client: EPAM Systems, Newton, PA      Aug 2019   Jul 2020Role: UI DeveloperResponsibilities:  Responsible for overall design & analysis of UI components and integration with existingJ2EE  Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performconfigurations of spring Application Framework  Designed GUI of the project using HTML, JavaScript, Linux, jQuery, CSS to improvevisual effect on the dynamic front-end  Implemented REST web services for other applications to communicate  Annotation based Hibernate beans developed to eliminate the mapping XML files  Used Jenkins plugins for code coverage and also to run all the test before generating warfile  Applications developed using JavaScript, Angular6.Anayak Chauball  Used NPM for installing required node modules and other published Angular NPMmodules.  Updated the application with new features and created reusable components and servicesto consume RESTAPIs using component-based architecture using angular 6.  Worked on some of the new features of Angular 6 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, andform validators.  Implemented client-side Interface using Angular 6 and Node.js to structure JavaScript codein an MVC  Created prototypes in HTML, JavaScript and CSS for different UI pages  Implemented the integration with the back-end system with web services using SOAP  Worked with jQuery UI to improve user experience, such as Validation Engine, Data Table,Dynamic Charts, etc.  Experience with Azure services such as Logic Apps, Azure Functions and ARMtemplates  Developed Azure Active Directory (AAD) authentication and OAuth authorization for APIsecurity  Closely worked with Kafka Admin team to set up Kafka cluster setup on the QA andProduction environments.  Had knowledge on Kibana and Elastic search to identify the Kafka message failurescenarios.  Implemented to reprocess the failure messages in Kafka using offset id.  Involved in migration of SQL Server databases to SQL Azure Database using SQL AzureMigration Wizard and deployed the application to Azure cloud.  Developed Java Beans and Utility Classes for interacting with the database using JDBC  Processed JSON Request according to different types of modules, actions and request data  Designed and implemented of Spring-Security for the application for authenticationprocess against LDAP, J2EE pre-authentication and Database    Involved in migration and integration of Sybase database servers  Created jar files, compiled them and run those using Maven scripts  Maintained and written Sybase stored procedures  Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version controlKeyBank, Cleveland, OH                   Jan 2017   Jul 2019Role: Java DeveloperResponsibilities:  Involved in discussions with the client to discuss and understand various components ofthe requirement and to implement the same.  Implemented JSP corresponding to the controller where in the data was propagated intoit from the model and view object from the controller Designed and Implemented MVCarchitecture using Spring Framework, which involved writing Action in Vue.js.Classes/Forms/Custom Tag Libraries & JSP pages.  Designed, developed, and maintained the data layer using Hibernate and performedconfiguration of Spring Application Framework.Anayak Chauball  Extensively written jQuery for responsive event handling. Involved in front enddevelopment using JSP's, JSF and JSTL.  Used XML, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP Web Services for communicating data betweendifferent applications  Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application as security protection forXML, SOAP, REST and JSON to make a secure Web Deployment.  Developed Jersey Restful Framework of spring for consuming and producing webservices.  Developed server-side services using Java, spring, Web Services (SOAP, Restful,WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RPC).  Experience using SOAP UI for testing web services. Created JUNIT test case forvarious functional modules, modified, debugged, and executed using JUNIT plugin toEclipse IDE.  Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL onOracle database.  Extensively used log4j to log regular debug and exception statements. Performedversion control and configuration management tools like GIT, SVN and CVS.  Experience on Log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the serverconsole.Vodafone       Jul 2010- Dec 2015Role: Software EngineerResponsibilities:  Involved in application development in Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture usingSpring MVC, Servlet and JSP.  Developed the App using Spring, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Servlets Deployedthe application in Tomcat.  Experience in SASS using Ruby as well as LESS in JS  Designed and developed RESTful Web Services using Spring Boot.  Experienced with Typescript and Core JavaScript including ES5 and ES6.  Used AJAX, JSON with jQuery for request data and response processing.  Build microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise.  Recommend and develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projectswith Spring Security and Spring Boot.  Create RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing SpringBoot with Spring MVC.  Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle, My SQL,MSSQL and DB2.  Built pipeline for internal projects which includes utilizing Gradle for project build andstructure.  Oversee and develop Notification Service microservice to use across the enterprise.  Experience in working with third party web services APIs and Web Services using AJAX andJQUERY.Anayak Chauball  Coordinated with software engineering teams for development of technical documentationand Implemented procedures for creation of wireframes and prototypes for new userinterfaces.  Proficient in Web based testing viz. Integration Testing, System Testing, PerformanceTesting, Functional Testing and Unit Testing.  Adaptable in quickly changing technical environments with very strong organizational andanalytic skills.  Worked on Agile (Scrum) Development team to deliver regular updates to business teamand project managers.  Developed unit test cases using Junit and Mockito framework for testing accuracy of codeand logging is done using SLF4j + Log4j.-----END OF RESUME-----

Anayak Chubal
Sunnyvale California
United States~#~#~
Phone: 5106418097

Current Job Title: Application support engineer/Senior Full Stack Java Developer
Desired Job Title: Anayak Chauball
Work Authorization: Green Card Holder
Employment Type: Part-time, Contract - Independent, Contract - W2, Contract to Hire - Independent, Contract to Hire - W2, Contract - Corp-to-Corp, Contract to Hire - Corp-to-Corp
Willing to Relocate: No
Social Profiles:
Dice: https://www.dice.com/employer/talent/profile/575a5e235c88fa368fe3f70fca08e306Likely To Move: Yes
Likely To Move Score: 100%
Third Party: No
Years of Experience: 12
Current Experience: 9/2020 to Present, Application support engineer/Senior Full Stack Java Developer, Hitachi Vantara

Employment History:
9/2020 to Present
Application support engineer/Senior Full Stack Java Developer, Hitachi Vantara

8/2019 to 7/2020
UI Developer, EPAM Systems

1/2017 to 7/2019
Java Developer/Application support engineer/Senior Full Stack, KeyBank

7/2010 to 12/2015
Application support engineer/Senior Full Stack Java Developer, Vodafone

Present
Application support engineer/Senior Full Stack Java DeveloperSkills:
api: 19 years, last used in 2022
junit: 18 years, last used in 2022
mvc framework: 18 years, last used in 2022
node.js: 18 years, last used in 2022
integration: 17 years, last used in 2022
spring security: 17 years, last used in 2022
angularjs: 16 years, last used in 2022
react js: 16 years, last used in 2022
framework: 10 years, last used in 2022
json: 10 years, last used in 2022
qa: 10 years, last used in 2022
restful: 10 years, last used in 2022
software: 10 years, last used in 2022
spring: 10 years, last used in 2022
web services: 10 years, last used in 2022
security: 10 years, last used in 2020
javascript: 9 years, last used in 2020
jquery: 9 years, last used in 2020
oracle: 18 years, last used in 2019
apache log4j: 9 years, last used in 2019

Harvested Resume from Dice
be58b0a5f1057c258f4a13a9c75569fb3eed65b3
Name=Anayak Chubal